---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Why MIS?
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2015-09-08
labels:
  - MIS
  - Intro
---

    I am a Finane and MIS major at Shidler College of Business. My reasons for choosing business as a major may be like many other student’s reasons. The major is one of the less difficult ones to achieve and provides a wide variety of different minors for me to pick. With Business having many majors it will be easier for me to schedule classes to fit my student life. For Finance, I was able to intern and shadow other financial analysts and attended earnings calls of the companies they were trying to invest in. I also had the opportunity to pitch foreign investment to department heads in the bank. I was able to develop my finance interest and realize the fun in finance. However, I have decided to double major and add the MIS major after talking to professionals and joining some student clubs such as BEST. Just by talking to people I was able to obtain insight into the benefits of being both a Finance and MIS major in the rapidly changing world. 
  Later on, I looked into the possibilities of the combined majors and saw the importance of knowing the tech side of bussiness. The impact of technology has chnaged not only our daily lives but it also changed how businesses conduct business. Businesses that can use and evaluate data in their advantage provides the company with a competitive advantage. Therefore, I believe that having IT skillsets combined with majoring in Finance is very valuable for the business world in the forseeable future. It is my hope that I will be able to learn fundamentals on how to utilize IT resources. 
  In conclusion, Finance and MIS are aspects of business that I would focus on and continue to develop experience in my time at Shidler. Although there are many more classes I will have to take, I hope to learn more about programming in this ITM 352 class and I hope to have fun doing so!
